I'm going to show you how to make a
classic Victoria sponge and it's a great
recipe to know the basics for because it
forms the background to many different
types of cakes so I'm going to start
first with some softened butter and some
castor sugar and what we're going to do
is we're going to beat it with the
electric beaters until it's really light
and creamy
it's best to start on a slow-speed first
while you break the butter up otherwise
it can fly all over the kitchen
now speed up the whisks
keep moving the whisks around as you
beat so you get all the Bowl
incorporated let's go again
now my butter and sugar mix is really
nice and creamy and pale so it's time to
start adding the eggs so first I'm just
going to break them up with a fork and
give them a quick beat okay I'm going to
add the eggs to the bowl in small
additions and that's going to stop the
mixture from splitting
now what you want to keep doing is
adding the egg bit by bit until you have
a really creamy like cake mixture that
looks like this now it takes for quite a
long time so I'm going to show you the
next stage what I'm going to do now is
fold in the flour so we're going to add
it in one go and this has been sifted
it's not strictly necessary but you can
sift if you like I'm going to fold this
in with a large metal spoon so using a
sort of figure of 8 pattern I'm going to
cut the flour into the cake batter and
you cut and swirl the spoon folding
under and over itself and the reason you
do this is so they don't knock all the
air out
you've just whisked in with your beaters
so that's all incorporated now it's just
the right texture I'm really happy I
want it to be soft dropping consistency
which in layman's terms means it'll fall
off the spoon easily like so and if your
cake batter isn't quite that soft a
great thing to do is add a tablespoon of
milk stir it in and it should be the
right texture so now we're going to put
it into our tins I've got two Sandwich
tins which have been buttered and lined
on the base the next step is to split
the mixture between the tins just do it
by eye you haven't got to be too exact
okay
I'm going to take another clean spoon
I'm going to push the mixture around the
tin to fill the bottom you haven't got
to be too finicky about how you spread
the cake mixture out as it will find its
own level once it's in the oven but just
make sure you get it to the edges so I
do the same with the second one pushing
it out nice even strokes right I'm happy
with those so I've got my two sandwich
tins ready to go into the oven now I've
got a cake in there already I'm going to
pull that out and show you what to look
forward to check your cake is ready out
comes a cooked cake
so first off I know this is cooked
because it's a beautiful golden-brown
color all over so you're looking for an
even goldish color not too dark not too
pale and the cake is springy to the
touch so use your fingers and check if
it's cooked it should be springy and
light and risen and it's also come away
from the side slightly so that's ready
now this cake has cooled a bit longer
I'm going to do is take it out this tin
I'm going to lift it away from the base
I leave it on the rack to cool
completely and then once that's cooled
you can fill the cake with Jam or cream
whatever you fancy and make a fantastic
Victoria sponge like we have here so
that's how to make the perfect Victoria
sponge